
P01 My first Neural Network
===========================

[clic to go](https://github.com/raquelredo/Projects/tree/master/Deep%20Learning/P01%20First-neural-Network)

This project has been done in the context of [Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/)'s Deep Learning Nano degree. It is my first Neural Network and for that the challenges were multiple. This data set consists on information about a business bike rental. I need to build a NN to predict daily bike rental ridership.

I have been given some of the code shown, but I did have to implement on my own most of the math programming that you will see: backpropagation, forward pass and activation function as an example.

The code has a section for testing the implementation. Although that has been all set up by Udacity's mentors I decided not to remove for in the case someone cross by this notebook and can use the idea.

Dataset information
-------------------

Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

Attribute Information:

-   instant: record index
-   dteday : date
-   season : season (1:springer, 2:summer, 3:fall, 4:winter)
-   yr : year (0: 2011, 1:2012)
-   mnth : month ( 1 to 12)
-   hr : hour (0 to 23)
-   holiday : weather day is holiday or not (extracted from \[Web Link\])
-   weekday : day of the week
-   workingday : if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.

-   weathersit :
-   1: Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
-   2: Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
-   3: Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds
-   4: Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
-   temp : Normalized temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t\_min)/(t\_max-t\_min), t\_min=-8, t\_max=+39 (only in hourly scale)
-   atemp: Normalized feeling temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t\_min)/(t\_max-t\_min), t\_min=-16, t\_max=+50 (only in hourly scale)
-   hum: Normalized humidity. The values are divided to 100 (max)
-   windspeed: Normalized wind speed. The values are divided to 67 (max)
-   casual: count of casual users
-   registered: count of registered users
-   cnt: count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered

Source
------

Hadi Fanaee-T

Laboratory of Artificial Intelligence and Decision Support (LIAAD), University of Porto INESC Porto, Campus da FEUP Rua Dr. Roberto Frias, 378 4200 - 465 Porto, Portugal

-   Original Source: <http://capitalbikeshare.com/system-data>
-   Weather Information: <http://www.freemeteo.com>
-   Holiday Schedule: <http://dchr.dc.gov/page/holiday-schedule>
